# **Coding Guidelines Subcommittee Meeting on 2025-09-17 @ 1100 EDT / 1700 CEST**

[Link](https://www.worldtimebuddy.com/?qm=1&lid=5,100,2643743,12,1850147,2193733,1880252,8,6,2673730&h=5&date=2025-9-17&sln=11-12&hf=1) to meeting time in common time zones.

| Search Key | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| \[todo\] | Action Item |
| \[decision\] | Something decided on |
| \[important\] | Key information |

## **Agenda**

1. Solicitation of notetaker  
2. Acceptance of [Previous Meeting Minutes](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/blob/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines/meetings/2025-09-10/minutes.md)
3. Introduction of new members  
4. Share launch milestone & Kanban board (Pete)  
   * [Prepare for launch to wider Rust community](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-coding-guidelines/milestone/1)  
   * [Kanban board](https://github.com/orgs/rustfoundation/projects/1/views/3)  
     * [`contributor experience`](https://github.com/orgs/rustfoundation/projects/1/views/4) view  
     * [`coding guideline`](https://github.com/orgs/rustfoundation/projects/1/views/5) view  
5. Review draft process for submission of coding guidelines. Feedback welcome!
   * Link to PR will go here when ready
6. Development of FLS maintenance capabilities (Pete)  
   * Pete volunteered to champion this [t-spec goal](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2025h2/FLS-up-to-date-capabilities.html) because we rely on the FLS as an upstream dependency  
   * Pete drafted this [FLS Team \- North Star](https://hackmd.io/@plevasseur/HJb6qomOge/edit) document as a rallying point in the Consortium to gather interest and is looking for feedback  
   * Discussions are forming in the Rust Project `t-spec` team for creating a Rust Project team to maintain and develop the FLS.
   * Gathering interest here!
7. Review progress on guidelines incorporated from CERT  
   * [High-level mapping of CERT rule groups to Rust](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-coding-guidelines/issues/152)  
     * Integers \- FÃ©lix  
     * Arrays \- Alex  
     * Floating Point \- Andrew  
8. Round table

## **Check-in area**

**Please add your name, and an emoji that describes your day.**

* 

**Notetaker:**

* 

For tips on how we take notes in the Safety-Critical Rust Consortium, please see the [Meeting Notetaker Role](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/blob/main/docs/notetaker-role.md) doc.

## **Housekeeping section**

* Document space: [coding-guidelines](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines)  
* Zulip: [safety-critical-consortium: Coding Guidelines](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/445688-safety-critical-consortium/topic/Coding.20Guidelines)  
* [Kanban board](https://github.com/orgs/rustfoundation/projects/1/views/3)  
  * [`contributor experience`](https://github.com/orgs/rustfoundation/projects/1/views/4) view  
  * [`coding guideline`](https://github.com/orgs/rustfoundation/projects/1/views/5) view

## **Tasks**

* Search for the \[todo\] markers

## **Meeting Minutes**

* 

## **Material**

Any material to read before the meeting should be included here.

* Milestone: [Prepare for launch to wider Rust community](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-coding-guidelines/milestone/1)  
* FLS Maintenance: [FLS Team \- North Star](https://hackmd.io/@plevasseur/HJb6qomOge/edit)  
* [Github Issue to discuss about panicking in Safety Critical](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-coding-guidelines/issues/158)

