# Tooling Subcommittee Meeting on 31 October 2025 @ 4pm GMT

| Search Key | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| \[todo\] | Action Item |
| \[decision\] | Something decided on |
| \[important\] | Key information |

## Agenda

1. Solicitation of notetaker  
2. Update on Rust Project Bridge Task Force   
3. Update from Tooling Submissions Task Force[manuel.hatzl@ferrous-systems.com](mailto:manuel.hatzl@ferrous-systems.com)

## Check-in area

**Please add your name, and an emoji that describes your day.**

* Tshepang ğŸ˜€  
* Xander Cesari ğŸš†  
* Manuel Hatzl ğŸ•  
* Pete LeVasseur ğŸ‘‹  
* Alexandru Radovici ğŸ‘¶ğŸª‘  
* Dorian Peron  
* Oreste Bernardi ğŸ™ï¸  

**Notetaker:**

* Xander Cesari

People interested in joining the **Rust Project Bridge Task Force**

* Manuel Hatzl

## Housekeeping section

* 

## Tasks

* See \[todo\] below â¬

## Meeting Minutes

* Introduction of Satoshi Kaneko, currently an observer  
* Manuel Hatzl prepared flow chart diagram showing how to handle the new tool submissions  
  * Being discussed in PR 497: [https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/pull/497](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/pull/497)  
    * Assigning phase \- works through who will take over new issues and which committee/taskforce it goes to  
    * Review New Issues flow takes over after the issue is assigned  
  * Feedback:  
    * Itâ€™s nice to split up these large charts into smaller files/charts to make it easier to review/refer to.  
      * This might make it tricky to maintain cross links between different sections of the diagram but more research into Mermaid would probably enable it.  
    * How do we make this an actual workflow?  
      * Currently flowing into the subcommittee/tooling/flow folder with raw files.  
      * Having links from the issue templates to the rendered versions of these diagrams would be good.  
      * Mermaid diagrams automatically render directly in GitHub and also via docasaurus  
    * Might consider explicitly tracking which state an issue is in so we can place each one on the flow chart and better track what they need next.  
* Updates to the PR for machine readable file format for tools and desired compile features:  
  * [https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/pull/463](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/pull/463)  
  * Licenses can be complex depending on usage restrictions. Suggesting to have `license` and `license-note` field to make a machine readable license field and an arbitrary string with more information.  
    * License limitations can be complicated and arbitrary; like an open source software that might have a paid safety manual available to make it certifiable.  
    * Perhaps a `liability` field to indicate an open source but commercial software where the commercializer is taking liability?  
    * We might need a glossary or a description of why thereâ€™s more complexity in this software licensing categorization than most open source projects.  
    * If there isnâ€™t a good reason to make this data highly machine sortable then perhaps we should just stick with arbitrary strings and description?  
    * We could put any liability notes into the `license-note` field but license is often an unexciting discussion point whereas `liability` jumps out and is more differentiated.  
  * What should go in the description? How long should it be, how much marketing speak should be allowed?  
    * An easy way to minimize marketing speak is â€œput what your tool does, not how well it does itâ€. This skews towards descriptions like â€œa static code analyzerâ€ and away from â€œthe fastest static code analyzer on the marketâ€.  
    * We can deal with overly sales-y descriptions as the submissions come in.  
* New first-time member joining: Dorian Peron, from AdaCore, working on bringing MC/DC back into the compiler  
  * Upcoming meeting with the Rust Project to discuss alignment and MC/DC will certainly come up  
* Update from the RFC process  
  * Pete: RFC process is still in review  
  * Pete: Hope to have the process reviewed and merged next week  
  * Pete: Will then make RFC repo public  
  * Pete: will then create the â€œzeroth RFCâ€, describing the current state of the safety critical consortium  
* Rust project bridge task force update?  
  * Aforementioned meeting between members of the task force and members of the Rust Project to discuss industry support
