# 2025 Late Year Global Virtual Meetup \- Day 2 \- 2025-10-15 @ Oct 15, 2025 9:00‚ÄØAM

| Search Key | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| \[todo\] | Action Item |
| \[decision\] | Something decided on |
| \[important\] | Key information |

## Agenda

| Time | Topic | Person | Slide |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| 9:00‚ÄØAM EDT \- 9:30‚ÄØAM EDT | Safety-Critical \+ Rust | Niko Matsakis | 3 |
| 9:30 AM EDT \- 9:45 AM EDT | Overflow, as needed | Niko Matsakis | xx |
| 9:45‚ÄØAM EDT \- 10:15‚ÄØAM EDT | Open discussion for: \- Retrospective, reaffirming Consortium values, RFC process\- Funding of in-person events\- Finalizing dice design üé≤ | Pete LeVasseur | xx |
| 10:15‚ÄØAM EDT \- 10:30‚ÄØAM EDT | Break time | Pete LeVasseur | xx |
| 10:30‚ÄØAM EDT \- 10:45‚ÄØAM EDT | Prioritize top three topics of interest and split into groups | Pete LeVasseur | xx |
| 10:45‚ÄØAM EDT \- 11:30 ‚ÄØAM EDT | Breakout sessions for topics\- Topic A: Breakout Meeting \- In-person\- Topic B: Breakout Meeting \- Guidelines\- Topic C: Breakout Meeting \- Marketing / Outreach | Everyone | xx |
| 11:30‚ÄØAM EDT \- 11:55‚ÄØAM EDT | Reconvene, share takeaways | Pete LeVasseur | xx |
| 11:55‚ÄØAM EDT \- 12:00‚ÄØPM EDT | Meeting close: hope to see you in Utrecht\! üëã | Pete LeVasseur | xx |

## Pete needs to have alternative emails added for the following

* D√°niel Sz≈±cs  
* Oreste Bernardi  
* Achim Kriso

## Items for open discussion in breakout sessions later

* How to structure in-person events  
* Coding guidelines  
  * Handling of coding guideline ‚Äúflavors‚Äù (https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-coding-guidelines/issues/205)  
  * Describe / Improve rule promotion process  
* Website team  
  * Capturing the existing good work and/or delegates from each group  
* Marketing and outreach for Rust language in safety-critical  
  * Newsletter?  
  * All-Hands Meetings?  
  * How to attract medical industry to join  
  * Offering virtual speakers?  
  * Sending delegates to events  
    * Embedded World (as an example of safety-critical): 2-3% Rust adoption thus far seen

## Check-in area

**Please add your name, and an emoji that describes your day.**

* Pete LeVasseur ü¶Ä‚òï  
* Daniel Szucs ü§í  
* Dorian P√©ron ü¶Äüê¢  
* Oreste Bernardi ‚õ∞Ô∏è  
* Samuel Wright üåû  
* Alex Celeste ‚òï  
* Douglas Deslauriers üê¶  
* Julius Gustavsson ‚òï  
* Achim Kriso ü¶Ä  
* F√©lix Fischer ‚òïüé∂  
* Satoshi Kaneko  
* Alexandru Radovici üòè  
* Tshepang üôÇ  
* Max Jacinto üëæ  
* Tiago Manczak üôÇ  
* Markus Hosch üò∏  
* William Barsse  
* Xander Cesari ü§í  
* Christof Petig üçµ  
* Daniel Krippner üòÄ  
* Manuel Hatzl üçï  
* Rafael Ruiz-Lucena üôÇ  
* Brendan Bogan-Ware ‚òï  
* Tony Aiello üôÇ  
* Enow Scott ü§í  
* Robert C. Seacord üò£

**Notetaker (before splitting into groups, after reconvening from groups):**

* Pete LeVasseur (for now, forgot to find someone)

**Notetaker (Topic A):**

* Pete LeVasseur

**Notetaker (Topic B):**

* Alex Celeste

**Notetaker (Topic C):**

* Christof Petig

## Housekeeping section

* [Rust Global Tokyo](https://rustfoundation.org/media/rust-global-tokyo-connecting-the-rust-ecosystem-across-industries-regions/)  
* Looking for lightning talk presenters (10 minutes) on a variety of topics such as:  
  * Safety-Critical  
  * Rust in Automotive  
  * Rust in Robotics  
  * Rust Migration Story	  
  * Hiring Rust talent / becoming a professional Rust	  
  * Or any other ideas welcome\!  
* Or if you just want to attend, that‚Äôs cool too.  
* Feel free to reach out to [Joel Marcey](mailto:joelmarcey@rustfoundation.org) if interested\!

## Meeting Minutes (while we‚Äôre together as a Consortium)

Dice design

* Logo design is OK  
* Twenty sided  
* Let‚Äôs pick colors later

Safety-critical \+ Rust

* Rust Project scope (currently):  
  * Language  
  * Compiler  
  * Currently not looking at scope of [crates.io](http://crates.io) ecosystem  
* FLS coordination  
* MC/DC support  
* Open to other discussions  
* [Rust for Foundational Software](https://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2025/03/10/rust-2025-intro/) blog article  
  * Resonated with folks in safety-critical; seems to have overlap  
* Are there specific gaps? Language / tooling gaps?  
  * Language features needed to make certain things possible / simpler  
  * Certain things are a bit ‚Äúsloppier‚Äù than we‚Äôd like  
    * Integer arithmetic in particular:
      * Behavior on overflow is well-defined, but the situation could be improved.
      * Ideal feature: to be able to represent ranges of values in the type system.
        * If it compiles ==> we have proven that no range overflow has happened
  * Unsafe code  
    * Some additional help would be nice here  
    * Defining which parts are Undefined Behavior and not  
    * Some things are simply not known  
    * Unsafe is just sometimes needed in our domain whether for performance  
    * Checking generated assembly is possible, but time-consuming  
  * A: Certain things due to bits not getting encoded into type system  
  * Established procedure and knowledge across industries important  
    * E.g. SAE JA-1020 is important, but still under publication for procedural reasons  
    * A: Seems like those in the safety-critical space may have better knowledge about this; tooling for extensible linting may be nice  
    * A: How many can be linted?  
      * Around half of them; some guidance on how to proceed on things which are harder to lint and are in the grey area, e.g. macros.  
        * Folks are monitoring progress on variadic generics, which could address many of the needs for macros  
  * Clippy  
    * Tool qualification  
      * Potentially TCL2 in ISO 26262  
      * Qualify the injection of lints, qualify the lints separately  
    * Extensibility of lints  
      * Fork for now?  
      * Adding pluggability?  
    * Involves both Clippy, and Compiler teams  
    * Human-readable reports generated  
      * Even in non-safety-critical domain, need to follow ASPICE  
      * Currently any Clippy failures will count as build failures. Having traceability to suppression would be good.  
      * A: Having a report showing where `allow` is used and the rationale.  
      * Starting writing some of the code a while back; got pre-empted on other things.  
* Higher-level items as a tool vendor  
  * Stability and predictability  
    * `rustc` APIs for querying AST, etc  
      * Seem essentially unstable and lacking in documentation  
      * Concerns that these may change underneath of us  
    * GNU ABI for Windows changed to Tier 2  
      * Was a bit surprising  
    * Unstable features which are in nightly that could be removed and commercial products will be built on top make it challenging  
  * Does the process of adding features to Project support a ‚Äúfast no‚Äù?  
    * Knowing sooner than later will help with knowing how to scope product development  
  * Building tools in upstream is good as a tool vendor, it‚Äôs helpful for long-term maintenance  
    * This is win-win, as then maintenance can be done collaboratively by other open source maintainers  
  * A: Agree with current characterization of compiler. Can we make `rustc` into an extensible platform?  
    * Rust Project has less experience with integrating organizations; more with integrating individuals  
    * Top-down pressure around deadlines leads to burn-out for those that are working within the Rust Project‚Äôs constraints  
    * A: Can we make a subgroup to talk more in-depth?  
      * We have a Rust Project Bridge Task Force we‚Äôre starting  
      * We may be able to pull more Rust Project folks into this  
    * A: Rust for Linux getting integrated a bit more  
      * Initially they were coming as individuals  
      * Now getting stronger sense of collaboration  
      * Goal is to be able to build the kernel with any "sufficiently recent" version of Rust.
        * Example: getting such a toolchain out of Debian stable 
    * A: We want to find narrow interfaces that can be committed to and stabilized. Middle expectations cause confusion.  
      * Thinks there‚Äôs good room for finding narrow interfaces.  
      * Some advantages in the Safety-Critical community around this. Expectation is that the compiler / tooling vendor can provide some level of stability.  
      * Safety manual \+ qualified compiler may make the Project‚Äôs life a bit easier.  
      * Want more people to experiment with things in Nightly before it gets shipped to Stable.  
  * Redox kernel developers faced similar issues, using unstable inline assembly tied to LLVM  
    * When change in focus happened, many things broke and changed for them since they were using this unstable feature  
    * Even though opted in, caused pain  
* Key innovation: `unsafe` keyword  
  * Within chip vendor companies there‚Äôs sometimes a sense of ambiguity of what‚Äôs actually safe to do within `unsafe` code, especially when interacting with external world, e.g. DMA controllers, MMUs, peripherals like CAN controllers  
  * Therefore, a focus on a Rust Language Specification with coverage over `unsafe` is very important  
  * A: If lints are being collected into human-readable report, then having any place where `unsafe` is used we can have rationale collected  
  * `unsafe` is good because it changes the mindset of users when they have to reach for it, then induces manual audit needed  
  * A: file open example \-- subtle interaction e.g. /dev/process/mem not safe, but chosen to close eyes regarding this. Could imagine in the safety-critical setting to override and inject needs to say what might be `unsafe`. Is this what you mean?  
  * Imagine needing to write to DMA. Should this be declared safe or `unsafe`? Understood that the trait is safe, don‚Äôt want to make the trait unsafe. Could be a sign that a particular implementation may be `unsafe` on some platforms. Want to have a clear expectation when interacting with external world.  
* Request: to gather a list of work we‚Äôd like to get done in the Rust compiler  
* Lori of Foundation:  
  * Could be another good resource to discuss with  
* Seems having informal discussion like this could spark good areas of collaboration  
* Something not a part of Clippy‚Äôs infrastructure is something like a global analysis  
  * We have a coding guideline about recursion  
  * Reasoning about direct recursion fine  
  * Reasoning about indirect recursion in the call graph is not feasible today, requires whole code analysis of call graph  
  * Some initial discussions with the Clippy team regarding global analysis made it seem like it might not be a good fit. Thoughts?  
  * A: Further reinforcing opinion that Clippy to have all analyses in the world may not be the correct path. Seems worth it to try to make that not necessary.  
  * Some ergonomics of Clippy that are great, like the restriction group, where you can opt into certain lints. Off by default as not needed. The kind of group our lints would be implemented into.  
  * A: Part of extensibility might be to inject lints into existing lint groups. Want a concept of ‚Äúgroup of things‚Äù, maybe call it profiles, to allow for the ability for that extensibility. The kinds of Rust being written for web servers vs low-level embedded software differ, would like a more elegant way to bridge that gap.  
    * Precedent for this kind of feature: [`clippy.toml`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy?tab=readme-ov-file#configure-the-behavior-of-some-lints)

## Retrospective, reaffirmation, RFC

- Keeping the values at hand is valuable because it helps in making more difficult decisions.  
- ‚ÄúSafety first‚Äù is a nice motto.  
- RFC process discussion is easier with a specific example  
  - Who would be an adversary to accepting a proposal? So is ‚Äúacceptance‚Äù  
  - Also a documented ‚Äúconsent on dissent‚Äù would be a valuable outcome.  
  - C++ has an algorithm on consensus and could be a good role model.  
- Funding of in person events  
  - A meeting in Q2 \+ Q3/4 would be preferred  
  - RustWeek would be a natural choice, Rust nation UK is another option, but RustWeek already sees more attendance from the group  
  - Perhaps one in person event would be enough, at least one in person event per year is consensus  
  - Break-out sessions would considerable raise the costs  
  - The most controversial discussion should happen in person, easy topics work well online as well  
  - Extension to in person discussions should affect the largest set of stakeholders involved  
  - The discussion on whether one or two in person meetups will continue on Zulip  
  - Concentrating on one meeting per year might raise attendance due to expectancy  
  - A solution for attendants which might not be able to afford it easily would be nice

## Meeting Minutes (Topic A \- In-person)

* What have we done in the past?  
  * Attach to a Rust Conference: RustConf; RustNationUK; RustWeek;   
  * Agenda style so far:  
    * Mornings: report-out  
    * Afternoon: prioritized topics  
  * Has thus far been a bit more social and hallway discussions are valuable  
* Travel may need to be booked well in advance of topics  
  * People that will be there or not likely already have the travel booked  
  * These types of things we may only know say a month in advance at best  
* Workshops?  
  * If we can do virtually, we can do this  
* Online vs In-person  
  * Should maximize benefit of not being online, casual chit-chat  
  * Hard to identify the benefit in a dollars and cents way but they can spark collaboration  
* Unstructured discussions are valuable  
* KubeCon had unconference  
* **\[important\]** Maybe afternoons can be for Unconference sessions (these happen at RustConf too)  
  * 6-7 whiteboards  
  * Depending on venue we can utilize other spaces, not only the room  
  * Rotate through topics on say, ¬Ω hour to 1 hour cadence  
* Potential for having report-outs in the AM and unstructured discussion in the PM  
* How many people coming are recurring? Meeting people for the first time is of higher value.  
  * Is the goal to improve focus on work via unstructured discussions?  
    * Seems more this, based on repeat turnout. (\~70% overlap seen so far)  
  * Or is it broader and useful to talk to new people?  
* Should attendance be an expectation?  
  * Implicit vs explicit expectation  
  * People that go in-person have better opportunities to get involved and get work done  
  * Can lead to some sort of separation  
    * Unclear  
  * **\[important/decision\]** Explicitly: no in-person attendance necessary  
    * For example there was no Rust All-Hands for 6 years. It still functioned.  
    * Come if you:  
      * Find value in unstructured discussions, sparks that come from that  
      * Want to bring a topic to really bat around with others  
      * You‚Äôll be at the conference anyway and can extend one day  
* 1 vs 2 meetings  
  * Geographical considerations, e.g. NA vs Europe  
  * Having two meetings helps with travel budgets for those that are based in one vs the other  
  * **\[important/decision\]** Hold two meetings, one in Europe, one in NA  
* Is there something else we could spend $6k for one of the meetings?  
  * Not so much from what we can tell; we cannot get much done for example in the Rust compiler for that amount of money

## Meeting Minutes (Topic B \- Guidelines)

* Rule flavours  
  * There are different levels at which the same vulnerability can be mitigated: started out as ‚Äúsafety vs security‚Äù where the security people want to focus on specific shortcomings, and the safety people want to guardrail entire subsets of the language  
  * Led to accepting both use cases rather than a pivot in either direction  
    * Currently we have multiple rules covering the same defect in distinct ways  
    * Tailoring the approach needs to be easy for a project so that they can just choose an approach without noise from the out of scope rules  
  * Therefore rules need to be marked as belonging to one flavour or the other  
    * Subsets and defects form a tiered approach because subsetting *should* cover all defects as special-cases  
    * We may want other flavours  
  * How do we structure this to be usable for projects?  
  * Is the tiered approach correct?  
    * Subsetting the language should implicitly comply with defect avoidance  
    * Distinction does need to be easy to understand  
    * Need to document the flavours explicitly and therefore what they mean: three tiers? Catch-all subsetting, fine-grained subsetting, and specific targeting of defects  
      Currently two tiers are consciously in use: giving the example of the division by zero rules w/ safe API vs flow analysis of the divisor  
    * Subsetting has a big advantage over defect-avoidance in terms of decidability, although not universal (and recorded separately)  
  * In the process of starting a project: assessor will ask which tier is better? Is the safety level the same and the enforcement a matter of preference, or are we advertising a stronger enforcement? ‚ÄúFlavour‚Äù does not imply that the rules provide the same safety guarantee and that only a matter of preference, which might not be quite accurate  
    * Managers in a safety context want to know *which is safer* and not the UX  
    * So we need a Guideline for selecting an appropriate profile  
  * Is this free-form or does it just refer to the enforcement level? Could also be used for profiling like arithmetic vs memory  
    * Users may want to defer enforcement for certain rule categories  
  * Will this affect tool complexity? Since line of code can violate multiple rules  
  * Is this truly about subsetting? ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt write that defect‚Äù is a subset too  
    * Maybe more useful to approach in terms of where and whether Deviations are permitted and/or necessary  
    * There is no use case for a Deviation to allow division by zero, although it might not be provable  
    * Not allowing certain calls, recursion, etc., has use cases after assessing the risk involved  
  * Some correlation between subset/defect guidelines, and static/runtime properties of the code: not doing a forbidden operation at all provides a stronger static guarantee  
  * ‚ÄúBetter‚Äù can refer to the cost of validation or auditing \- subsetting is much easier and therefore better from a cost perspective, verification can be automated more easily  
    * The cost is that programmers are heavily constrained in their writing  
    * So we communicate to the user which approach is needed \- choosing some rules implies only linting, whereas other rules imply stronger validation approaches  
  * Suggestion: to add a ‚Äúsubset or defect‚Äù field to every Guideline \- does it apply to every Guideline?  
    * It is possible that some rules are more general and don‚Äôt belong in either tier  
    * Some rules are more specific refinements of other rules and need to be marked as related  
    * Need a See Also feature for this and in general  
  * Need to document specifically when one guideline implies full compliance with another guideline  
    * How do we want to formalize this relationship? Formal logic in the field? Are there rules that depend on two or more other rules in combination with AND and OR logic, to be implicitly enforced?  
      * Example of the OR scenario: two different options for subsetting division by zero out of the language, both of which fully exclude the underlying defect  
    * ‚ÄúIs fulfilled by‚Äù and ‚Äúfulfils‚Äù fields? The encoding does need to be human-readable. Certainly one subset rule can potentially enforce many defect rules  
  * Not clear that extremely general rules are useful: cited example of MISRA C 1.3 ‚Äúdon‚Äôt do UB‚Äù \- this is useless in practice  
    * Do tool vendors even bother to enforce these?  
      * Yes but it‚Äôs hostile along both axes to implementation \- broad yet not static  
    * Should it be treated as aspirational? Maybe for that purpose it shouldn‚Äôt be an explicit rule and should be somewhere else  
    * Goals are useful to some users  
  * In defence of R1.3 \- useful for human-oriented review more than for automatic analysis  
    * Good to have that clear statement in the document that UB is not acceptable \- myths about edge cases being OK, etc., that we want to shut down  
    * Probably there is some construct other than a rule  
  * Tools like Miri use an interpreter to detect UB violations, but are not based on static analysis  
    * Probably don‚Äôt want to imply specific tools being needed for enforcement  
    * Tests only prove the existence of defects, raise confidence about their absence but do not prove it  
* Rule promotion process  
  * Need a way to write it down and just make it happen, or if the machinery exists simply to document better  
  * For example, opening up two issues that turn into rules \- they seem to be complete but there doesn‚Äôt seem to be a path forward; this is probably documented somewhere but couldn‚Äôt find how it‚Äôs supposed to work  
  * User stumbling blocks \- find a reviewer, get the reviewer‚Äôs attention to convert an Issue to a PR, and then get it Approved and Merged  
    * Reticence about just pressing the Merge button  
  * Probably agree that the workflow is to DM a potential reviewer on Zulip and just ask for their attention  
  * Probably agree to merge early as soon as there are no build errors or technical mistakes, and expect full doc review later  
    * Use the draft status on merged items, don‚Äôt expect final quality  
  * This needs to be written down somewhere  
    * [PL and FF have a PR](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-coding-guidelines/pull/149) that documents the process or getting a rule into the document, but that PR is itself not merged and therefore not obvious where to look for the instructions  
    * The ‚Äúcontributing‚Äù file is quite outdated when contrasted to this  
    * Need to open an Issue on top of this \- the PR is blocking the update to the contribution documentation  
    * Non-explicit processes are a pain point for new and existing users, esp to learn  
  * When pinging members we should do a round-robin of every registered Producer so that every PR gets an assignee from the reviewer group  
    * Reviewers need to know they are needed  
    * PRs need review and reviewers  
  * This is probably an example of what should be encoded into the new RFCs as well as existing in the Guidelines docs

## Meeting Minutes (Topic C \- marketing \+ website)

* Marketing Rust is a natural task for AdaCore (and other tool vendors) ;-)  
* Commercial and Open Source interests align on growing Rust adoption  
* Monthly all hands meetings help communicate to curious people outside the core group  
* Ferrous recently made a heroic effort on timeline for safety qualification and library certification for a customer  
  Normally a timeline would in the year+ range  
* Perhaps a 15 minute introduction to safety critical should be part of every Rust conference to spread the awareness of safety for Rust (foundation topic)  
  * A Rust conference might be cool for the community but it won‚Äôt get us in contact with customers on safety  
  * [Slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bDGewzIk8mSybwBVwb2kBwPg0WsPwgjgtqJ3_RjKrIg/edit?usp=sharing) that could be useful  
* We might need to market safety critical to the Rust community as well  
* Vendors will already focus on events like embedded world, they could hand out marketing material for the consortium (e.g. business cards with QR codes)  
* Newsletter?  
  * Perhaps the official Rust blog would a good place  
    * This would display a closeness to the Rust project (legitimacy in both ways)  
  * This week in Rust is a another good choice  
    * This would typically link to either a blog or a similar news website  
    * A section on safety might be nice  
  * Rust content team connection exists from within the group  
* There is an interest in finance and webservice providers to follow safety best practices  
* A media kit would be nice  
  * AdaCore might be able to help here once the requirements are clear  
  * The Rust foundation might also be a candidate to reach out to  
* Long term, stickers to get *Rustaceans* excited about Rust in planes, cars etc. could be an option  
* WebSite content could be organized via Zulip and/or Subcommittee meetings  
  * A monthly poll for content could be a good start  
  * Some concrete artifacts are missing on the website  
    * Roadmap for qualification  
    * Some guidances for sub-committees‚Äô content  
    * Highlight this at the top of subcommittee meetings
