# Liaison Subcommittee Meeting on 2025-03-28 @ 2 PM UTC

| Search Key | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| \[todo\] | Action Item |
| \[decision\] | Something decided on |
| \[important\] | Key information |

## Agenda

1. Introductions  
2. Notetaker for meeting  
   1. Notes in Google doc and then transfer to GitHub  
3. Subcommittee chair selection (formally)  
4. Meeting times  
5. Role and mission of the subcommittee  
6. Liaison Updates  
7. Future Liaison Opportunities  
   1. Who will own any specific opportunities?  
8. Any other business

## Check-in area

**Please add your name, and an emoji that describes your day.**

* Joel Marcey üåÖü•± (has to drop after 45 minutes)  
* Pete LeVasseur üìù  
* Sarah Dietrich üôÇ  
* Alex Celeste üôÇ  
* Xander Cesari ‚òï  
* Arnaud Fontaine (Airbus)  
* Robert C. Seacord ‚úàÔ∏è

**Notetaker:**

* Pete LeVasseur

## Housekeeping section

* 

## Tasks

* Start a list of people already working on things either (Joel Marcey starts doc in Consortium repo)  
  * About Rust in safety-critical space or  
    * E.g. SAE JA-1020  
  * In general safety-critical standards or spaces  
    * E.g. AUTOSAR   
    * E.g. in newest revision of ISO 26262 if we can get a mention of Rust (high priority)  
    * E.g. IEC 61508  
* Get started the Liaison Subcommittee folder (Joel Marcey)  
* Provide write access to Alex Celeste (Joel Marcey)

## Meeting Minutes

1. Notetaker for meeting  
   1. Pete LeVasseur  
2. Introductions  
   1. Joel Marcey \- Dir. of Technology at Rust Foundation  
      1. Managing logistics of Safety Critical Rust Consortium  
      2. On Coding Guidelines Subcommittee  
   2. Pete LeVasseur \- Woven by Toyota  
      1. Coding Guidelines Subcommittee Chair  
      2. Eclipse SDV WG Rust SIG \- co-lead  
      3. Advocating for Rust in safety-critical within Woven and outside  
   3. Sarah Dietrich \- Festo (sp?)  
      1. Safety expert and standardization of software process  
      2. Responsible for coding guidelines  
      3. Industrial safety knowledge resource  
   4. Alex Celeste \- Perforce  
      1. Active contributor to MISRA C  
      2. Trying to expand and make connections  
      3. Authored Rust Addendum to MISRA  
      4. Lead developer of Helix QAC for C and now also Helix QAC for Rust  
   5. Xander Cesari \- Pictorus  
      1. Automotive for about a decade  
      2. Familiar with standards-work  
      3. Try to be a good liaison into wider Automotive space  
   6. Arnaud Fontaine \- Airbus  
      1. Cybersecurity evolution for all of satellites, airplanes, helicopters  
      2. Currently not using Rust for most safety-critical things  
      3. Would require tooling, coding guidelines for some of these safety-critical bits  
      4. French National Cybersecurity \- authored part of Rust guidelines there  
   7. Robert C. Seacord \- Convener of C Standards Committee, Standardization Lead at Woven by Toyota  
      1. Did a 6 month staff augmentation and audit for Meta on Rust  
      2. Has done coding standards for C, Java, C++  
   8. Orson Pessin \-   
      1. Automotive in Europe for couple of OEMs  
      2. Wyliodrin and OxidOS account manager (OxidOS being a spin-off from Wyliodrin)  
      3. Doing Rust for the past 5-6 years  
3. Subcommittee chair selection (formally)  
   1. Selected formally for Alex Celeste \[decision\]  
4. Meeting times  
   1. Current day and time and frequency ‚Äì any issues?  
   2. None apparent ‚Äì let‚Äôs keep it \[decision\]  
5. Role and mission of the subcommittee  
   1. Initial goal laid out at consortium was collaboration with e.g. standards groups, Rust Project  
   2. Coding guidelines \- smoothing out IP concerns with referencing standards & upstreaming  
      1. How can we reference them? Section number? Title of section? Some light quoting?  
      2. Can we have Rust stuff upstreamed into them? E.g. the work Alex has done with MISRA‚Äôs Rust Addendum  
   3. Proactive or reactive?  
      1. Seems like both currently  
      2. Proactive part ‚Äì go talk with people already working on Rust documents and offer help to currently in play  
      3. Proactive part ‚Äì ‚Äúupstreaming‚Äù Rust things into other documents, e.g. ISO 26262, IEC 61508  
      4. Proactive part ‚Äì list of current on-going work and folks we can contribute to and with \[decision\] \[important\]  
         1. Break up the list later as well on who is best to liaise where \[decision\]  
6. Liaison Updates  
   1. Official announcement of Ferrous Systems donating Ferrocene Language Specification into the upstream Rust Project. \[important\]  
   2. ESF \- Enduring Security Framework \- both industry and government  
      1. CISA, NSA  
      2. MS, Google  
      3. At the end of last year, they made a publication.  
      4. Since the administration switch, everything got shut down, all published docs were removed from the government website. \[important\]  
   3. Contact at RedHat about ISO 26262  
      1. Got intro to someone at RedHat, one at Linux Foundation  
      2. Could have further meetings to chat about it  
      3. Unsure if Rust Foundation already has contact at Linux Foundation  
         1. Yes ‚Äì we can figure out who best to liaise and many at LF to talk to  
      4. [ELISA](https://elisa.tech/) \- Enabling Linux in Safety-Critical Applications contact  
7. Future Liaison Opportunities  
   1. Some movements occurring for shifting documents and activities to governments and administrations which appear more friendly to memory-safety activities  
   2. ISO is an international body which doesn‚Äôt interact with individuals  
      1. There must be a nationally recognized body  
      2. [https://www.incits.org/](https://www.incits.org/) is an example of the body for the USA  
   3. WG23 \- Alex Celeste  
      1. Potential to start work and in-roads from the Rust side in a paper  
8. Any other business  
   1. Next meeting in three weeks‚Äô time at the same time \[decision\]

## Material

Any material to read before the meeting should be included here.

* 

