# Coding Guidelines Subcommittee Meeting on 2024-10-22

## Agenda

1. Acceptance of Previous Meeting Minutes   
2. Intro from folks (brief\!)  
3. Contributor expectations: offline review & feedback  
4. Mission Statement: offline review & feedback  
5. Unsafe coding guidelines proposal review: offline review & feedback  
6. Housekeeping: Time & meeting frequency  
7. Management of upcoming topics  
8. Round table

Supplemental material to the agenda can be found on the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines).

## Check-in area

**Please add your name, and an emoji that describes your day.**

* Munawar Hafiz, ğŸ˜€  
* Marc Schoolderman, ğŸ«¨  
* Joel Marcey ğŸ˜  
* Alex Celeste   
* Alexandru Vochescu ğŸ˜€  
* Andrew Herridge  
* Arthur Hicken ;-) ğŸš™  
* Jonas Wolf  
* Julius Gustavsson ğŸ‡¸ğŸ‡ªğŸš—  
* Marc Schoolderman  
* Munawar Hafiz  
* Pete LeVasseur âœŒï¸  
* Christof Petig  
* Sarah Dietrich  
* Andrew Herridge ğŸ˜€
  
**Notetaker:** 

Joel Marcey

## Housekeeping section, please add 

* Document space: https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines  
* Zulip: [safety-critical-consortium: Coding Guidelines](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/445688-safety-critical-consortium/topic/Coding.20Guidelines)

## Tasks

* [plevasseur@gmail.com](mailto:plevasseur@gmail.com) \- check and see what can be used out of JAE1020 for unsafe coding guidelines  
* [Joel Marcey](mailto:joelmarcey@rustfoundation.org) \- set up a Google Drive for consortium Google docs

## Meeting Minutes:

* **Logistics**  
  * Set up a Google Document space for the consortium  
    * We could also consider converting Google docs to markdown and putting them in GitHub too. Need to see if that makes sense  
* **Contributor Expectations**
  * Expectations  
    * Follow Rust Code of Conduct  
    * Participation mainly targeted towards senior engineers  
    * Folks should be actively contributing  
    * Understanding Rust and/or safety critical  
  * How are the guidelines enforced?  
  * (These are _not_ presented here due to decision to rework these in 2024-11-11 meeting)
* [**Mission Statement**](../../mission-statement.md)
  * Develop a community-vetted coding guideline for Rust in safety-critical applications  
  * Provide feedback offline  
* [**Unsafe coding guidelines proposal**](../../initiatives/safe-use-of-unsafe-guidelines/safe-use-of-unsafe-guidelines-proposal.md)
  * How does the `unsafe` keyword and usage fit into our coding guidelines?  
  * This will be the first item of output by the subcommittee  
  * Peter \- check and see what we can use out of JAE1020  
  * Jonas and Marc spoke and believe this is a good starting point.  
* **Time and meeting frequency**  
  * Proposal to meet once every two weeks  
    * General agreement that this is a good cadence to start with (Arthur spoke about this)  
  * Target duration will be one hour per meeting  
  * Have a few meetings at the current time and then potential shift to time after a re-vote on times.  
  * Need to see how we can make it accessible, at least once in a while, for folks in Asia.  
* **Management of upcoming topics**  
  * Spreadsheet of topics  
    * Maybe a GitHub Project spreadsheet?  
* **Round table**  
  * Other topics to be added on the upcoming topics list  
  * People with experience related to our goal to participate in some of our meetings

## Material

Any material to read before the meeting should be included here.

