# Coding Guidelines Subcommittee Meeting on 2024-12-18 @ 3pm UTC

## Agenda

1. Acceptance of [Previous Meeting Minutes](../2024-December-04/minutes.md)
2. `unsafe` Practicum Chapter Task Force - progress report (Jordan McQueen)
3. `unsafe` Docs Review Task Force - progress report (Pete LeVasseur)
4. Round table

Supplemental material to the agenda can be found on the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines).

## Check-in area

**Please add your name, and an emoji that describes your day.**

* 

**Notetaker:**

* 

## Housekeeping section, please add

* Document space: https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines
* Zulip: [safety-critical-consortium: Coding Guidelines](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/445688-safety-critical-consortium/topic/Coding.20Guidelines)

## Tasks

* 

## Meeting Minutes:

* ## Material

Any material to read before the meeting should be included here.
