# Coding Guidelines Subcommittee Meeting on 2025-01-29 @ 3pm UTC

## Agenda

1. Acceptance of [Previous Meeting Minutes](../2025-January-15/minutes.md)
2. `unsafe` Docs Review Task Force - progress report (Douglas Deslauriers)
3. `unsafe` Practicum Chapter Task Force - progress report (Jordan McQueen)
4. Progress report on booklet to define `unsafe` terms and scope (Andrew Fernandes)
5. Round table

Supplemental material to the agenda can be found on the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines).

## Check-in area

**Please add your name, and an emoji that describes your day.**

*

**Notetaker:**

*

## Housekeeping section

* Document space: [coding-guidelines](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines)
* Zulip: [safety-critical-consortium: Coding Guidelines](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/445688-safety-critical-consortium/topic/Coding.20Guidelines)

## Tasks

*

## Meeting Minutes

*

## Material

Any material to read before the meeting should be included here.

### Tracking Issues

[\[Coding Guidelines\] Learn unsafe Rust \- Practicum Chapter Draft](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/issues/122)
[\[Coding Guidelines\] Review of Unsafe Coding Guidelines Reference Glossary](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/issues/123)
