# 2024-12-07 Meeting Summary

- Decided to map from properties/requirements to standards.
- Decided to add a column for how language-specific the feature is.
- Decided to use GitHub to collaborate on populating the table.
- Discussed outside references we can use to populate the table.
- Decided to add an agenda item on the scope of the tooling committee.
- Decided to meet again 2nd week of January.
