# Coding Guidelines Subcommittee Meeting on 2025-02-12 @ 3pm UTC

## Agenda

1. Acceptance of [Previous Meeting Minutes](../2025-January-29/minutes.md)
2. Consortium report (Pete LeVasseur)
  * Work items
  * Status
  * Roadmap
  * Items we'd like to bring to wider consortium attention
3. `unsafe` Formulate Chapter Material Task Force - progress report (Pete LeVasseur)
4. `unsafe` Practicum Chapter Task Force - progress report (Pete LeVasseur)
5. Safety Pamphlet - progress report (Andrew Fernandes)
6. Round table

Supplemental material to the agenda can be found on the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines).

## Check-in area

**Please add your name, and an emoji that describes your day.**

*

**Notetaker:**

*

## Housekeeping section

* Document space: [coding-guidelines](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/coding-guidelines)
* Zulip: [safety-critical-consortium: Coding Guidelines](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/445688-safety-critical-consortium/topic/Coding.20Guidelines)

## Tasks

*

## Meeting Minutes

*

## Material

Any material to read before the meeting should be included here.

### Tracking Issues

* [\[Coding Guidelines\] Learn unsafe Rust \- Practicum Chapter Draft](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/issues/122)
* [\[Coding Guidelines\] Formulate Chapter Material for Learn unsafe Rust](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/issues/123)
