# **Liaison Subcommittee Meeting on 2025-04-25 @ 2 PM UTC**

[Conversion](https://www.worldtimebuddy.com/?qm=1&lid=5,14,8,12&h=5&date=2025-4-25&sln=10-11&hf=1) between common time zones of attendees.

| Search Key | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| \[todo\] | Action Item |
| \[decision\] | Something decided on |
| \[important\] | Key information |

**Agenda**

1. Introductions (if needed)  
2. Notetaker for meeting  
   1. Notes in Google doc and then transfer to GitHub  
3. Review Action Items  
   1. List of people/orgs already doing work  
   2. Housekeeping stuff  
4. Liaison Updates  
   1. Ferrous Systems?  
   2. ISO 26262 (Red Hat, MISRA?)  
   3. ELISA  
   4. WG23  
   5. ISO (INCITS, BSI, etc)  
   6. Any other contacts  
5. Additional Liaison Opportunities  
6. Next meeting  
   1. Proposed: 2025-05-09 @ 1400 UTC  
7. Any other business

## **Check-in area**

**Please add your name, and an emoji that describes your day.**

* Joel Marcey ü§∑‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è  
* Alex Celeste  
* Arnaud Fontaine   
* Xander Cesari üõ†Ô∏è  
* Pete LeVasseur, üèÑ  
* Sarah Dietrich üôÇ

**Notetaker:**

* 

## **Housekeeping section**

* Document space: [liaison](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/tree/main/subcommittee/liaison)  
* Zulip: [safety-critical-consortium: Liaison Subcommittee](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/445688-safety-critical-consortium/topic/Liaison.20Subcommittee/)  
* Work Item Board (N/A)

## **Tasks**

* 

## **Meeting Minutes**

1. Work with Ferrous is to transfer the FLS into the Rust Project. Joel can be a general liaison as needed, particularly on any specification items.  
2. Red Hat has not been reached out to  
   David Ward is a contact for ISO 26262, not reached out yet  
   1. \[todo\] [Xander Cesari](mailto:xander.cesari@pictor.us) to reach out to ISO 26262 contact via Red Hat  
3. ELISA to follow up  
   1. \[todo\] [Xander Cesari](mailto:xander.cesari@pictor.us) to reach out to ELISA via Red Hat contact  
4. Linux Foundation provides some funding and services so there is a relationship but not a specific relationship w.r.t SC work  
   Joel can liaise to the LF directly and open avenues for asking the questions about who has which information  
5. WG23 \- not currently working on this but would accept submissions  
   Similar to the SAE committee issues \- lots of abstentions, lack of internal knowledge  
   Collect volunteers at the in-person  
   Bring any artifacts associated with this to the in-person  
6. BSI (not yet contacted for procedural reasons)  
7. Joel has longstanding relationship with ECMA International (prev chair of C\#)  
   TC12 is the safety standards group  
   \[todo\] Joel or Alex to find out what this committee does and see if they have an interest  
8. Others who have an industry stake in engaging w/ standards \- make a table that maps groups to individuals to look into these  
   \[todo\] Alex to create the table mapping orgs to RIs, ensure that this is merged up right away  
9. Foundation eng team has joined INCITS to get access to WG21 for the C++/Rust interop work; indirectly connected to the safety-critical work; should have an aspect but at the moment is a relationship-building exercise  
   Jon Bauman leading this effort \- short term goal just to get C++ people on board at all  
   The WG21 representatives are making the effort to be present at Rust Week for this  
   The Venn diag. Or C/C++ interop, and safety-critical, ‚Äúis not a circle but is pretty close‚Äù \- high-level mission statement  
10. Survey indicates a lot of vagueness in interest in the standard \- users are not appearing to go through ISO or do gap analysis, going off hearsay and community awareness  
11. AUTOSAR has added Rust to the Classic (not Adaptive) platform  
    \[todo\] Alex to bring back a report on this work for Classic  
    Christof Petig has been pushing a lot of this and should be consulted if he has the availability  
    \[todo\] Pete to contact Christof directly  
12. No corresponding document for per-language in aerospace \- very lang-agnostic, users expected to bring the information for the tooling and languages themselves  
    DO330 has the most difficult requirements but they are all placed on the tools rather than the language; Airbus is working on how to go about this and will produce a presentation shortly  
    Needs support for validation from tool vendors such as AdaCore, Ferrous, et al. and in terms of what resources/support from other groups they would need to perform this  
13. ‚ÄúPromote responsible adoption‚Äù  
14. The list of responsible individuals is basically the subgroup‚Äôs main artifact \[todo\]  
    Joel will put together a draft slide deck for the whole meeting which this can be added to

## **Material**

Any material to read before the meeting should be included here.

* 

